Contribute page review structure & checklist (#1117)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/contribute/propose-a-change.md

   height = 400
%}

#### Request a review

> Your proposed changes need to undergo a [review process]({{ '/guide/contribute/review/' | relative_url }}). It often consists of  several rounds of feedback, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your proposed changes need to undergo a [review process]({{ '/guide/contribute/review/' | relative_url }}). It often consists of  several rounds of feedback, these rounds usually include the following:
```

> Your proposed changes need to undergo a [review process]({{ '/guide/contribute/review/' | relative_url }}). It often consists of several rounds of several rounds of feedback, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your proposed changes need to undergo a [review process]({{ '/guide/contribute/review/' | relative_url }}). It often consists of  several rounds of feedback, for example:
```

> 1. **Structural:** Reviewers look at how the new content fits in with the existing content in the guide. They check if it's generally appropriate, complete and accurate, and if it reads well. It gives you confidence that you are working in the right direction.

Reviewer 2: I think the content reading well belongs in the Refinement stage, or even Polish stage.

```suggestion
1. **Structural:** Reviewers look at how the new content fits in with the existing content in the guide. They check if it's generally appropriate, complete and accurate. It gives you confidence that you are working in the right direction.
```

2. **Refinement:** This is about ensuring the content (text and visuals) is accurate, well-written, and communicates well. Several rounds may be needed. 
3. **Polish:** Here we make the final content tweaks, like ensuring that there are no typos, everything renders correctly across devices, images have alt texts, etc. Once complete, the pull request can be approved and merged. 

> This is generalized and your process may look different. In your pull request, and when requesting reviews, make sure to clearly communicate the type of feedback you are looking for. This makes the review task easier and more focused, and leads to more helpful responses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a generalization and your process may look different. In your pull request, and when requesting reviews, make sure to clearly communicate the type of feedback you are looking for. This makes the review task easier and more focused, and leads to more helpful responses.
```

> The community may not automatically see when you post a new pull request. Make sure to ask in the [#bitcoin-design-guide](https://discord.gg/7Z6z8cetwu) Discord channel, and reach out to reviewers whose specific feedback you would appreciate. You can also organize a reading session for your content, so far they have always been extremely helpful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The community may not automatically see when you post a new pull request. Make sure to ask in the [#bitcoin-design-guide](https://discord.gg/7Z6z8cetwu) Discord channel, and reach out to reviewers whose specific feedback you would appreciate. You can also organize a [reading session](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hjgpNVRe4uY) for your content, so far they have always been extremely helpful.
```

Reviewer: An idea to add in a link to a reading session review call.

> The community may not automatically see when you post a new pull request. Make sure to ask in the [#bitcoin-design-guide](https://discord.gg/7Z6z8cetwu) Discord channel, and reach out to reviewers whose specific feedback you would appreciate. You can also organize a reading sessions for your content, so far they have always been extremely helpful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The community may not automatically see when you post a new pull request. Make sure to ask in the [#bitcoin-design-guide](https://discord.gg/7Z6z8cetwu) Discord channel, and reach out to reviewers whose specific feedback you would appreciate. You can also organize a reading session for your content, so far they have always been extremely helpful.
```

[^3]: [Committing and reviewing changes](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/contributing-and-collaborating-using-github-desktop/committing-and-reviewing-changes-to-your-project#about-commits)

#### Common issues checklist

There have been over 600 pull requests on this project, and we have noticed some points of feedback that regularly come up. If you look out for those before requesting reviews, the overall process will be smoother.

**Front matter**

This are the page properties at the top of markdown files, between the dividers ("---").
- Ensure the page preview image is 1200x630px in size, and different from the banner image
- _redirect_from_ means that this page previously existed at a different URL. It is not needed for new pages

**Content**
- Write in sentence case, not title case
- Lowercase "bitcoin", "lightning network" and "ecash"
- Make sure to explain less-widely known technical terms before expecting users to understand their meaning and properties
- If a new page is a sub-section, make sure to include a reference in the section landing page ([example](https://bitcoin.design/guide/how-it-works/))

> - A simpler writing style allows your content to be more accessible to more readers (especially ones for whom english is not their native language)

Author: I see think that's fine. This checklist is a bit of a summary of things that are explained in more detail elsewhere, so some repetition is OK.

- For new pages, make sure to update the "Next" and "Previous" buttons on the respective next and previous pages
- Look for opportunities to cross-reference other content in the guide. If somethig is already well-covered elsewhere, you can build on that

**Images**
- Ensure image content (especially text in images) is legible on mobile devices
- Ensure image paths are correct
- Ensure "width" and "height" attributes in picture and image includes match the actual image dimensions
- For smallest file size, use the JPG file format for textured and photographic images, and PNG for images with mostly flat color

> - Compress your images via tool like [ImageOptim](http://imageoptim.com) (can save ~70% of bandwidth)

Author: If you use a tool like ImageOptim, it will not compress images twice. Just drag all your pics in, let it do its thing, and you're good to go.

> - Delete unused images from your PR

Author: Yep, but it has to be done.
